README.md, before:

# MongoDB Test for IBM Cloud Private

This is a test client app that attempts to communicate with the MongoDB service/server in the IBM Private Cloud.

Step 0 is of course setting up [IBM Cloud Private](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_1.2.0/kc_welcome_containers.html). I used Vagrant as per the instructions [here](https://github.com/IBM/deploy-ibm-cloud-private/blob/master/docs/deploy-vagrant.md).

After that, you need to configure IBM Cloud Private (via the IBM Cloud Private console) to run a MongoDB service that is accessible by a client. See [Database Setup](#database-setup) below for instructions.

You can further [manage](#managing-your-mongodb-helm-release) it from the IBM Console.

Once all is setup, install dependencies using `npm install`.

To start the server, type `npm start`. The password will be automatically retrieved from `kubectl` and IBM Cloud secrets, and will remain hidden to the client. The host and port variables are also automatically setup.

## Database Setup

There seems to be 2 methods to setup the MongoDB service on IBM Cloud Private:
 - [GUI](#gui-method)
 - [Command Line](#command-line)

### GUI Method
First find out where you IBM web console is. If you used the Vagrant setup, it should be in the output with the "happy dance".

For example, my console is hosted at https://192.168.31.100:8443/console. If you did not change the `base_setting` in the Vagrantfile like I did, then yours should be https://192.168.27.100:8443/console by default.

1. Login with your username and password, as set in the `Vagrantfile`

![Login Screen](screenshots/setup1.png)

2. Once in, click the **Catalog** button on the top right corner of the page. This will lead you to a Catalog page containing all the included Helm repositories. Search for "***mongodb***" and click on the repository named **ibm-mongodb-dev**

![Catalog](screenshots/setup2.png)

3. You will then be able to configure the MongoDB dev service. Give it a release name (in my case it is ***dbtest***), a target namespace (***default*** is fine), and check the necessary boxes.

![MongoDB Service Setup](screenshots/setup3.png)

4. We need to make sure that the MongoDB service is accessible outside of the Master node (i.e. an external client must be able to access it). Thus, we need to make sure that the configuration is set as **NodePort** and **NOT** *ClusterIP*.

	To do this, click **Parameters** > *All Parameters* and then scroll down to the part that says **Service configuration** and make sure that **Service Type** is set to **NodePort**.

	Refer to the screenshot below:

	![Service configuration](screenshots/setup4.png)

5. We also need to set a password for our administrator. Below **Service Configuration** is a segment that says **MongoDB Configuration** > **Password for MongoDB Admin User**. You are advised to set a strong one; the password is saved in your secrets file and automatically setup from there anyway.

	Refer to the screenshot below:

![Service configuration](screenshots/setup4.png)

6. Click **Install** and you should be done! You can now click on the *View Helm Release* button to view your release. Alternatively see [Managing your MongoDB Helm Release](#managing-your-mongodb-helm-release).

### Command Line
*Sorry, I haven't figured this out yet; I keep getting weird errors.*

## Managing your MongoDB Helm Release

### Overall Management

1. To manage your MongoDB service, click the hamburger menu in the top left corner, and go to **Workloads** > **Helm Releases**

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing1.png)

2. Search for the name of your release (mine was **dbtest**)
![Service configuration](screenshots/managing2.png)

3. Click on the link to get an overall view of your running release.

	Here, you can get information about [Deployment](#deployment), [Service](#service) and other notes

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing3.png)

### Deployment
This section allows you to manage and see your release as a kubernetes deployment. It shows you "**ReplicaSets**" (which I take to be kubernetes pods; you can have more than 1 if you want).

Note that you might have to wait a while for the deployment to turn from *`available`*` = 0` to *`available`*` = 1` before you can use the service.

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing5.png)

*NOTE: Also accessible from the **Workloads** > *Deployments** tab of the hamburger menu*

### Service
This table contains more information about your MongoDB service, in particular the internal localhost port and the external port (which will be used by the client to access).

The *Notes* portion in the screenshot below will help you to [configure the npm start script](#configuring-the-npm-start-script) if you need to.

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing4.png)

*NOTE: Also accessible from the **Network Access** > **Services** tab of the hamburger menu*

## Configuring the npm start script
While you could just run `npm start` and see how it goes, you might want to modify the start script according to your setup above.

Depending on what you put as the release name (it is `dbtest` by default), you have to edit the `package.json`'s `start` command accordingly.

For example, if your release name is `mydb` (mine is `dbtest`), replace all occurences of `dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev` with `mydb-ibm-mongodb-dev`. If you changed the namespace, you will need to change it from `default` to something else as well.

Alternatively, just replace the `start` command with whatever is shown when you view `ibm-mongodb-dev` in the **Helm Releases** section, which you can access by following the instructions [here](#service):

```
export MONGOPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace default dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
export MONGOHOST=$(kubectl get nodes --namespace default -o jsonpath='{.items[0].status.addresses[0].address}')
export MONGOPORT=$(kubectl get svc --namespace default dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
```

## References
Some code based off the awesome tutorial here: https://zellwk.com/blog/crud-express-mongodb/

Commit message:

Stupid bug fix for CLI-based database setup

README.md, after:

# MongoDB Test for IBM Cloud Private

This is a test client app that attempts to communicate with the MongoDB service/server in the IBM Private Cloud.

Step 0 is of course setting up [IBM Cloud Private](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_1.2.0/kc_welcome_containers.html). I used Vagrant as per the instructions [here](https://github.com/IBM/deploy-ibm-cloud-private/blob/master/docs/deploy-vagrant.md).

After that, you need to configure IBM Cloud Private (via the IBM Cloud Private console) to run a MongoDB service that is accessible by a client. See [Database Setup](#database-setup) below for instructions.

You can further [manage](#managing-your-mongodb-helm-release) it from the IBM Console.

Once all is setup, install dependencies using `npm install`.

To start the server, type `npm start`. The password will be automatically retrieved from `kubectl` and IBM Cloud secrets, and will remain hidden to the client. The host and port variables are also automatically setup.

## Database Setup

There seems to be 2 methods to setup the MongoDB service on IBM Cloud Private:
 - [GUI](#gui-method)
 - [Command Line](#command-line)

### GUI Method
First find out where you IBM web console is. If you used the Vagrant setup, it should be in the output with the "happy dance".

For example, my console is hosted at https://192.168.31.100:8443/console. If you did not change the `base_setting` in the Vagrantfile like I did, then yours should be https://192.168.27.100:8443/console by default.

1. Login with your username and password, as set in the `Vagrantfile`

![Login Screen](screenshots/setup1.png)

2. Once in, click the **Catalog** button on the top right corner of the page. This will lead you to a Catalog page containing all the included Helm repositories. Search for "***mongodb***" and click on the repository named **ibm-mongodb-dev**

![Catalog](screenshots/setup2.png)

3. You will then be able to configure the MongoDB dev service. Give it a release name (in my case it is ***dbtest***), a target namespace (***default*** is fine), and check the necessary boxes.

![MongoDB Service Setup](screenshots/setup3.png)

4. We need to make sure that the MongoDB service is accessible outside of the Master node (i.e. an external client must be able to access it). Thus, we need to make sure that the configuration is set as **NodePort** and **NOT** *ClusterIP*.

	To do this, click **Parameters** > *All Parameters* and then scroll down to the part that says **Service configuration** and make sure that **Service Type** is set to **NodePort**.

	Refer to the screenshot below:

	![Service configuration](screenshots/setup4.png)

5. We also need to set a password for our administrator. Below **Service Configuration** is a segment that says **MongoDB Configuration** > **Password for MongoDB Admin User**. You are advised to set a strong one; the password is saved in your secrets file and automatically setup from there anyway.

	Refer to the screenshot below:

![Service configuration](screenshots/setup4.png)

6. Click **Install** and you should be done! You can now click on the *View Helm Release* button to view your release. Alternatively see [Managing your MongoDB Helm Release](#managing-your-mongodb-helm-release).

### Command Line
*Sorry, I still haven't figured this out yet; I keep getting weird errors. Tell me if the supposed fix below works.*

1. Before anything, you need to fix a stupid bug via the GUI. Follow the fix on Github [here](https://github.com/IBM/deploy-ibm-cloud-private/issues/80#issuecomment-364155516):
```
We were able to fix it: helm-api pings a server that does not exist anymore.

Go to Workload > Deployments > [Search:] helm-api > Edit.
Find and remove liveness-probe and readiness-probe
Submit.
```

2. Run the script in `scripts/config_helm.sh` to configure your helm. Do this in the **MASTER NODE** (i.e. if you used Vagrant, you need to `vagrant ssh` in and run it there).

3. In the master node, you can install the mongodb with name `dbtest` and password `password123` as below:
```bash
helm install --name dbtest --set service.type=NodePort,database.password=password123 stable/ibm-mongodb-dev
```

More generally,
```bash
helm install --name <name-of-release> --set service.type=NodePort,database.name=<database-name(default:admin)>,database.password=<database-password> stable/ibm-mongodb-dev
```

Remember to set `service.type=NodePort`

## Managing your MongoDB Helm Release

### Overall Management

1. To manage your MongoDB service, click the hamburger menu in the top left corner, and go to **Workloads** > **Helm Releases**

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing1.png)

2. Search for the name of your release (mine was **dbtest**)
![Service configuration](screenshots/managing2.png)

3. Click on the link to get an overall view of your running release.

	Here, you can get information about [Deployment](#deployment), [Service](#service) and other notes

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing3.png)

### Deployment
This section allows you to manage and see your release as a kubernetes deployment. It shows you "**ReplicaSets**" (which I take to be kubernetes pods; you can have more than 1 if you want).

Note that you might have to wait a while for the deployment to turn from *`available`*` = 0` to *`available`*` = 1` before you can use the service.

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing5.png)

*NOTE: Also accessible from the **Workloads** > *Deployments** tab of the hamburger menu*

### Service
This table contains more information about your MongoDB service, in particular the internal localhost port and the external port (which will be used by the client to access).

The *Notes* portion in the screenshot below will help you to [configure the npm start script](#configuring-the-npm-start-script) if you need to.

![Service configuration](screenshots/managing4.png)

*NOTE: Also accessible from the **Network Access** > **Services** tab of the hamburger menu*

## Configuring the npm start script
While you could just run `npm start` and see how it goes, you might want to modify the start script according to your setup above.

Depending on what you put as the release name (it is `dbtest` by default), you have to edit the `package.json`'s `start` command accordingly.

For example, if your release name is `mydb` (mine is `dbtest`), replace all occurences of `dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev` with `mydb-ibm-mongodb-dev`. If you changed the namespace, you will need to change it from `default` to something else as well.

Alternatively, just replace the `start` command with whatever is shown when you view `ibm-mongodb-dev` in the **Helm Releases** section, which you can access by following the instructions [here](#service):

```
export MONGOPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace default dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode; echo)
export MONGOHOST=$(kubectl get nodes --namespace default -o jsonpath='{.items[0].status.addresses[0].address}')
export MONGOPORT=$(kubectl get svc --namespace default dbtest-ibm-mongodb-dev -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
```

## References
Some code based off the awesome tutorial here: https://zellwk.com/blog/crud-express-mongodb/
